Murderer of Laguna hotel manager gets life without parole
By ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER
March 1, 2014 at 7:30 am




SANTA ANA – A 23-year-old Lake Forest man will spend the rest of his life in prison for the 2009 bludgeoning death of a beloved Laguna Beach hotel manager.
Friends of victim Damon Nicholson wept Friday as Judge James A. Stotler ordered Matthew Thomas Dragna to serve the sentence with no chance of parole.
Stotler read out the sentence to a quiet, mostly empty courtroom Friday, save the occasional rattle of Dragna’s jailhouse chains, the whistle of wind as a storm blew outside and the quiet sobs of two of Nicholson’s close friends, who comforted each other during the proceeding.
“May he never feel the warmth of a hug from a loved one, share happy times with those he cares about or have the freedom to pursue his dreams. Your honor, take from him some of what he took from Damon and those that loved him,” said Carla Bravo, Nicholson’s friend of 20 years, during an impassioned statement to the court. “Justice must be served.”
No more long talks on the phone, movie nights with bonbons or Trivial Pursuit after spending Thanksgivings together, Bravo told the court. The two met while working together at Denny’s, she said.
Nicholson, who was a sales and catering manager at Hotel Laguna, was found bludgeoned to death in his Dolphin Way apartment on Oct. 24, 2009. A jury convicted Dragna of murder during a robbery – a special circumstance under California law with a penalty of death or life without parole.
Prosecutors said Dragna, after having a sex with Nicholson the night before in a sexual threesome arranged with a mutual lover, enlisted his friend Jacob Anthony Quintanilla to rob Nicholson at his apartment. During the robbery, Nicholson was beaten with a baseball bat brought by Quintanilla, fracturing his skull, prosecutors said. His body was found the next day when a concerned coworker checked on him after he didn’t show up.
Dragna’s DNA was found on a trash can, and prosecutors said he tried to sell Nicholson’s Apple laptop and Adobe software online.
Public Defender Frank Bittar argued during a December trial that Dragna set up a liaison with Nicholson, didn’t intend to commit a robbery and didn’t see the baseball bat until afterwards.
After serving 1,564 days in jail according to public defender Frank Bittar, Dragna’s appearance changed from his 2009 mugshot – heavier, with a shaved head, beard, glasses and a book on his lap. As Stotler told Dragna he’d spend the rest of his life in prison, his face was motionless.
Stotler said even if state law didn’t leave Dragna ineligible for parole, “the court would not grant (it) in light of the circumstances and (the defendant’s) prior record.” Stotler referred to a probation officer report “basically indicating” that he was a “career criminal.”
Those incidents included felony charges both as a juvenile and an adult – including a 2009 conviction for drug possession and a 2008 conviction for second-degree burglary.
Bittar said given the crime, he found the sentence to be “draconian,” cruel and unusual, and potentially violating the 8th Amendment of the U.S. Constitution, though he didn’t make a formal motion.
“My hands are tied, as I believe, respectfully, the court’s hands are tied,” Bittar said. “Perhaps someday down the road 10 to 15 years from now … someone may find my comments interesting.”
Bittar embraced Dragna’s mother Renee after the verdict. She quietly wiped tears away during the proceedings.
Bravo said she was happy with the sentence – though Tammy Hileman, a friend for five years and fellow photography student, said she would have preferred the death penalty.
Hileman wore cropped pants to the hearing to sport a tattoo she got in Nicholson’s memory – a black ribbon encircled by a rainbow, his birth and death dates and his name. Pink wings stretch out from the ribbon “so he’s in heaven,” Hileman said.
She told Bravo before the hearing she’s planning an addition – the words “justice served.”
But Hileman and Bravo both said it isn’t over – Quintanilla has a pretrial hearing scheduled March 21 at 9 a.m. in the same courtroom Dragna received his sentence.
Contact the writer: 949-366-9473 or kmejdrich@ocregister.com
Contact the writer: Twitter: @kelmej